# FEMA
The public's resource for FEMA program data. Promoting a culture of Open Government and increasing transparency, participation, and collaboration among the Whole Community in support of FEMA's mission to help people before, during, and after disasters. FEMA collects vast amounts of data on multiple aspects of emergency management - Disaster Information, Individual Assistance, Public Assistance, Hazard Mitigation, National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP), and Grants.

## Publisher: Troy Taylor, Hitachi Solutions

## Prerequisites
There are no prerequisites to use this connector.

## Obtaining Credentials
There are no credentials needed to use this connector.

## Supported Operations
### Get declarations
This action lists all requests for major disaster declarations and emergency declarations that have been denied.
### Get declaration summaries
Disaster Declarations Summaries is a summarized dataset describing all federally declared disasters. This action lists all official FEMA Disaster Declarations, beginning with the first disaster declaration in 1953 and features all three disaster declaration types: major disaster, emergency, and fire management assistance. The dataset includes declared recovery programs and geographic areas (county not available before 1964; Fire Management records are considered partial due to historical nature of the dataset).
### Get declaration areas
This data set contains general information on declared disasters, including the disaster number, declaration type, state, description, incident start and end dates, and incident type.
### Get authorized declarations
This action contains a list of FEMA declaration types and the types of assistance authorized.
### Get disaster summaries
This data set contains financial assistance values, including the number of approved applications, as well as individual, public assistance, and hazard mitigation grant amounts.
### Get mission assignments
A mission assignment (MA) is a work order issued by FEMA to another Federal agency in anticipation of, or in response to, a Presidential declaration of an emergency or major disaster. Mission assignments are authorized by the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (Stafford Act).
### Get emergency management performance grants
This action contains EMPG recipients as reported by their State and a summary of the funded program support as reported by the Recipient in the GRT.
### Get IPAWS alerts
The Integrated Public Alert and Warning System (IPAWS) is a modernization of the nation's alert and warning infrastructure that unifies the United States' Emergency Alert System (EAS), Wireless Emergency Alerts (WEA), the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) Weather Radio, and other public alerting systems implemented as a set of Web services. IPAWS was designed to modernize these systems by enabling alerts to be aggregated over a network and distributed to the appropriate system for public dissemination.
### Get firefighter grants
The Grant Programs Directorate strategically and effectively administers and manages FEMA grants to ensure critical and measurable results for customers and stakeholders. The grants represented in This action are Preparedness (Non-Disaster or ND) Grants and Assistance to Firefighters Grants (AFG).
### Get hazard mitigation assistance properties
This action contains the properties identified in the Hazard Mitigation Assistance (HMA) subapplications/subgrants from the NEMIS Mitigation and eGrants grants management systems.
### Get hazard mitigation assistance projects
This action contains Hazard Mitigation Assistance (HMA) subapplications/subgrants from the NEMIS Mitigation and eGrants grants management systems.
### Get hazard mitigation assistance projects by communities
This action contains the communities identified in the Hazard Mitigation Assistance (HMA) subapplications/subgrants from the NEMIS Mitigation and eGrants grants management systems.
### Get hazard mitigation assistance project financial transactions
This action contains information on the HMA subgrants that have received financial transactions in NEMIS Mitigation and eGrants. Sensitive information, such as Personally Identifiable Information (PII), has been removed to protect privacy. The information in this dataset has been deemed appropriate for publication to empower public knowledge of mitigation activities and the nature of HMA grant programs.
### Get hazard mitigation grant summaries
The dataset contains disaster level financial information for FEMA's Hazard Mitigation Grant Program (HMGP). The purpose of HMGP is to help communities implement hazard mitigation measures following a Presidential Major Disaster Declaration in the areas of the State, Tribe, or Territory requested by the Governor or Tribal Executive.
### Get hazard mitigation plan statuses
The data found here comes from the Hazard Mitigation Planning Program's Mitigation Planning Portal (MPP). The MPP is an online platform for tracking and reporting on mitigation plans and related data elements across all ten Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) Regions. MPP data provides insight into which jurisdictions are participating in mitigation plans across the country and what the status of those plans are. Additionally, MPP data provides dates to support tracking of when plans are approved and when they are set to expire which FEMA uses to monitor and support disaster preparedness and resilience.
### Get HMA subapplications
This action contains Hazard Mitigation Assistance (HMA) subapplications/subgrants from the FEMA Grants Outcomes (FEMA GO) system (FEMA's new grants management system). FEMA GO started accepting Flood Mitigation Assistance (FMA) and Building Resilient Infrastructure and Communities (BRIC) subapplications in Fiscal Year 2020. FEMA GO is projected to support the Hazard Mitigation Grant Program (HMGP) in Calendar Year 2023.
### Get HMA subapplications by communities
This action contains the communities identified in the Hazard Mitigation Assistance (HMA) subapplications/subgrants from the FEMA Grants Outcomes (FEMA GO) system (FEMA's new grants management system). FEMA GO started accepting Flood Mitigation Assistance (FMA) and Building Resilient Infrastructure and Communities (BRIC) subapplications in Fiscal Year 2020. FEMA GO is projected to support the Hazard Mitigation Grant Program (HMGP) in Calendar Year 2023.
### Get HMA subapplication financial transactions
This action contains the financial transactions for Hazard Mitigation Assistance (HMA) subgrants from the FEMA Grants Outcomes (FEMA GO) system (FEMA's new grants management system). FEMA GO started accepting Flood Mitigation Assistance (FMA) and Building Resilient Infrastructure and Communities (BRIC) subapplications in Fiscal Year 2020. FEMA GO is projected to support the Hazard Mitigation Grant Program (HMGP) in Calendar Year 2023.
### Get HMA subapplication project site inventories
This action contains the Project Site Inventories from the Hazard Mitigation Assistance (HMA) subapplications/subgrants from the FEMA Grants Outcomes (FEMA GO) system (FEMA's new grants management system). FEMA GO started accepting Flood Mitigation Assistance (FMA) and Building Resilient Infrastructure and Communities (BRIC) subapplications in Fiscal Year 2020. FEMA GO is projected to support the Hazard Mitigation Grant Program (HMGP) in Calendar Year 2023.
### Get housing assistance owners
This action is generated by FEMA's Individual Assistance (IA) reporting team to share data on FEMA's Housing Assistance program for house owners within the state, county, and zip code where the registration is valid for the declarations, starting with disaster declaration DR1439 (declared in November 2002). It contains aggregated, non-PII data. Core data elements include number of applicants, county, zip code, inspections, severity of damage, and assistance provided.
### Get housing assistance renters
This action was generated by FEMA's Individual Assistance (IA) reporting team to share data on FEMA's Housing Assistance program for house renters within the state, county, and zip code where the registration is valid for the declarations, starting with disaster declaration DR1439 (declared in 2002). It contains aggregated, non-PII data. Core data elements include number of applicants, county, zip code, inspections, severity of damage, and assistance provided.
### Get large disaster individual assistance registrants
Individual Assistance (IA) is provided by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) to individuals and families who have sustained losses due to disasters. It is intended to meet basic needs and supplement disaster recovery efforts. Homeowners, renters, and business owners in designated counties who sustained damage to their homes, vehicles, personal property, businesses, or inventory resulting from a federally declared disaster may apply for disaster assistance.
### Get individual and household program registrations
This action contains FEMA applicant-level data for the Individuals and Households Program (IHP). All PII information has been removed. The location is represented by county, city, and zip code. This action contains IA applications from DR1439 (declared in 2002) to those declared over 30 days ago. The full data set is refreshed on an annual basis; the last 18 months of data are refreshed weekly. This action includes all major disasters and includes only valid registrants (applied in a declared county, within the registration period, having damage due to the incident and damage within the incident period). IHP is intended to meet basic needs and supplement disaster recovery efforts.
### Get intake individual and household programs registrations
This action contains aggregated, non-PII data from Housing Assistance Program reporting authority within FEMA's Recovery Directorate to share data on registrations and Individuals and Households Program (IHP) for declarations starting from disaster declaration number 4116, segmented by city where registration is valid. Additional core data elements include: valid call center registrations, valid web registrations, valid mobile registrations, IHP eligible, IHP amount, HA eligible, HA amount, ONA eligible, and ONA amount.
### Get data set fields
Metadata for the OpenFEMA API data set fields. It contains descriptions, data types, and other attributes for each field.
### Get data sets
Metadata for the OpenFEMA API data sets. It contains attributes regarding the published datasets including but not limited to update frequency, description, version, and deprecation status.
### Get FEMA regions
Provides a list of FEMA Regions including the address for each region's headquarters as well as a point in GeoJSON format that identifies headquarters and a geometry shape for the region in GeoJSON format.
### Get NFIP claims
Congress passed the National Flood Insurance Act (NFIA), 42 U.S.C. 4001 in 1968, creating the National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP) in order to reduce future flood losses through flood hazard identification, floodplain management, and providing insurance protection. The Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) originally administered the NFIP, and Congress subsequently transferred the NFIP to FEMA upon its creation in 1979. FEMA and insurance companies participating in FEMA's Write Your Own (WYO) program offer NFIP insurance coverage for building structures as well as for contents and personal property within the building structures to eligible and insurable properties. The WYO program began in 1983 with NFIP operating under Part B of the NFIA and allows FEMA to authorize private insurance companies to issue the Standard Flood Insurance Policy (SFIP) as FEMA's fiduciary and fiscal agent. FEMA administers NFIP by ensuring insurance applications are processed properly; determining correct premiums; renewing, reforming, and cancelling insurance policies; transferring policies from the seller of the property to the purchaser of the property in certain circumstances; and processing insurance claims.
### Get NFIP policies
Congress passed the National Flood Insurance Act (NFIA), 42 U.S.C. 4001 in 1968, creating the National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP) in order to reduce future flood losses through flood hazard identification, floodplain management, and providing insurance protection. The Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) originally administered the NFIP, and Congress subsequently transferred the NFIP to FEMA upon its creation in 1979. FEMA and insurance companies participating in FEMA's Write Your Own (WYO) program offer NFIP insurance coverage for building structures as well as for contents and personal property within the building structures to eligible and insurable properties. The WYO program began in 1983 with NFIP operating under Part B of the NFIA and allows FEMA to authorize private insurance companies to issue the Standard Flood Insurance Policy (SFIP) as FEMA's fiduciary and fiscal agent. FEMA administers NFIP by ensuring insurance applications are processed properly; determining correct premiums; renewing, reforming, and cancelling insurance policies; transferring policies from the seller of the property to the purchaser of the property in certain circumstances; and processing insurance claims.
### Get NFIP comprehensive community layers
This action is also known as the 3d layer and contains a fairly comprehensive set of unaltered source geometry polygons that overlap.  It is derived from Census, State of Maine, and National Flood Hazard Layer political boundaries.
### Get NFIP flattened split community layers
This action is flattened and multicounty communities are split by county lines. "Flattened" means that there are no overlaps; larger shapes like counties are "punched out" or "clipped" where smaller communities are contained within them. This allows for choropleth shading and other mapping techniques such as calculating unincorporated county land area. Multicounty cities like Houston are split by county lines, allowing easier county summarization and alignment with certain NFIP statistics.  This layer is derived from Census, State of Maine, and National Flood Hazard Layer political boundaries.
### Get NFIP flatten whole community layers
This action is flattened and multicounty communities are unsplit by county lines. "Flattened" means that there are no overlaps; larger shapes like counties are "punched out" or "clipped" where smaller communities are contained within them. This allows for choropleth shading and other mapping techniques such as calculating unincorporated county land area.  Multicounty cities like Houston are a single feature, undivided by counties.  This layer is derived from Census, State of Maine, and National Flood Hazard Layer political boundaries.
### Get NFIP community status book
The National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP) enables property owners to purchase flood insurance; in return, communities agree to adopt and implement local floodplain management regulations that contribute to protecting lives and reducing the risk of new construction and substantial improvements from future flooding. The NFIP Community Status Book dataset contains the current NFIP status of a community which determines whether citizens have the opportunity to purchase flood insurance as well as qualify for disaster assistance. In addition, this dataset provides the available insurance discount rates for communities that participate in the Community Rating System (CRS).
### Get NFIP multiple loss properties
This action provides information on structures that have had multiple National Flood Insurance (NFIP) claims across the history of the program. The data contains NFIP-insured structures that fall within the four categories of Repetitive Loss and Severe Repetitive Loss that FEMA tracks. Definitions of these categories are provided in the field descriptions. There are also fields to show whether a structure is currently NFIP-insured, has been mitigated, and other characteristics. The data includes properties that have since been mitigated or demolished and may no longer considered to be in any of the listed categories.
### Get NFIP residential penetration rates
NFIP "take-up rates" or residential penetration rates are an estimate of the percentage of total residential structures covered by an NFIP policy. The NFIP residential penetration rate within an area, such as a county, is the ratio of insured residential structures to total residential structures in that area. Private flood insurance take-up rates are not available to FEMA and therefore, are not included in these estimates. This data can be used for various planning purposes to evaluate community resilience and residual flood risk, help states better understand areas vulnerable to flooding and provide guidance for flood insurance marketing. FEMA derives the number of total residential structures from the 2019 National Structure Inventory (NSI) 2.0.
### Get public assistance applicants
This action was generated by FEMA's Public Assistance (PA) reporting team to share data on assistance made available to eligible state, local and tribal governments, and certain private nonprofit organizations as part of presidentially declared disasters. This data, starting with disaster declaration DR1239 (declared in 1998), lists applicant (subrecipient) information that supplements the Public Assistance Funded Projects Details dataset.
### Get public assistance applicant program deliveries
FEMA's Public Assistance (PA) Grants Manager database, including the Grant Portal tool (collectively Grants Manager) was developed in 2016 and became the processing system for all new PA grants starting on August  25, 2017. Grants Manager documents PA projects from formulation to grant obligation and finally close-out. Grant formulation is a new process that was not previously captured.
### Get public assistance funded projects details
The Public Assistance Funded Projects Details dataset contains obligated (financial obligation to grantee) Public Assistance projects, lists public assistance recipients designated as applicants in the data, and a list of every funded, individual project, called project worksheets. Open projects still under pre-obligation processing are not represented. Applicant details can be obtained by relating This action with the OpenFEMA Public Assistance Applicants dataset using the Applicant ID field.
### Get public assistance funded project summaries
FEMA provides supplemental Federal disaster grant assistance for debris removal, emergency protective measures, and the repair, replacement, or restoration of disaster-damaged, publicly owned facilities and the facilities of certain Private Non-Profit (PNP) organizations through the Public Assistance (PA) Program (CDFA Number 97.036). The PA Program also encourages protection of these damaged facilities from future events by providing assistance for hazard mitigation measures during the recovery process.
### Get public assistance grant award activities
This action contains data on Public Assistance project awards (obligations), including the project obligation date(s); dollar amount of Federal Share Obligated for each project and its obligation date(s); FEMA Region; State; Disaster Declaration Number; descriptive cause of the declaration (Incident Type); Entity requesting public assistance (Applicant Name); and distinct name for the repair, replacement or mitigation work listed for assistance (Project Title).  

## Known Issues and Limitations
There are no known issues at this time.
